Polymorphism is another characteristic of object oriented programming, and we've said it is the second
of the pillars.
Its name comes from poly meaning many and morph shapes applied to programming.
It refers to the fact that objects can take different shapes.
But what does this mean?
Well, somehow we have all already been applying polymorphism without knowing it.
In Python, polymorphism means that objects of different classes, for example, those that have different
shapes, can share the same name of methods.
And then you can call those methods of the same name from the same place, but applied to different
objects.
I think explaining is way more confusing than showing it.
I'm kind of confused just saying it right now.
So let's go over to py charm to make it clear.
So let me tell you that polymorphism is not quite intricate yet.
It is very necessary to put into practice so as to understand it better.
So let's create two classes.
The first one will be CAO and it will have its attributes which are self unavoidable and a name and
nothing more.
Our cows will be created with a name, so let's add self name equals name.
We already have a constructor and now we'll create the talk method, the one we have already used.
It won't include other parameters than self, which will say the name of the Cao self name and it will
be concatenated with mus.
What else can a cow say?
Right.
Anyway, the second class will be sheep and we'll copy everything.
Cao has to make it easier because our sheep will basically have a name and the talk method.
But instead of mooing it will bleat, since it is a sheep, of course.
So we have two different classes.
We can create different cow and sheep objects with.
Bear in mind that each one of these objects can have plenty of different methods.
So cows produce milk, sheep produce wool, they have different features.
So let's keep it simple since this method is slightly different for every class.
So now we'll create an instance or object of each of these classes.
So let's create cow one that's equal to cow, and we're required a name.
So it'll be Mandy.
Now we have to create the sheep, one which is equal to sheep.
This one will be named Cloud.
So we created two objects.
Both animals are able to talk as they have their talk methods, meaning that if we call cow one talk
and sheep one talk and we execute it.
Clicking on Run, Run and polymorphism, it reads.
Mandy moves.
Cloud bleeds.
So even though this isn't something astonishing as it is expected to happen, it is the clearest example
of polymorphism I can give you.
So polymorphism two different objects execute a method that has the same name but different functions,
and it all works effectively.
You may not think it is something exceptional and engaging, but is quite simple when we look at our
code.
But this is the basis of polymorphism, so I'll demonstrate it using an iteration which will help you
see what's interesting about this.
So let's delete these lines and create a list named animals.
Animals will contain cow one and sheep one, so it will have two objects of different types, since
the form is a cow and the latter is a sheep.
So we'll start a for loop for each animal in animal's colon.
It will call animal talk.
That is the talk method of each animal.
So here comes the interesting part.
This works as we expect, but think about the reason why polymorphism is a core concept.
This list contains different objects and for each of them has a different method using the same name.
When iterating, polymorphism allows us to call each of these objects differently and make them execute
methods that are named the same and carry out different functions.
So although this is a way of understanding the importance of polymorphism in object orientated programming,
demonstrating it with functions will be much better.
So let's delete all this and create a function named animal talks.
Animal talks will ask for an animal.
But here, the type of object used as a parameter won't matter.
So let's open a call for this function and call it with different objects.
So first we'll call animal talks and pass the cow one object to it.
Now we'll execute it and see that Mandy moves because this object found its talk method and was able
to execute it and let's execute it once again using sheep one which is a different object.
Now cloud bleeds.
And here we can also see the importance of polymorphism in programming languages that support it.
Like Python.
Regardless of the animal you pass here, you can execute methods that share the same name.
And let me repeat this cow and sheep are different classes.
They could be different in hundreds of ways, and yet they share the same name of method.
So as programmers we can take advantage of polymorphism to iterate through objects that are different
in order to call methods that share a name and do different things.
So we can also create functions that execute different methods regardless of the type of object we pass
to them.
So polymorphism is a central feature of object orientated programming, and this was the second major
feature.
The first one was Inheritance, and before calling it a day and Starting, today's project will learn
how to perform some other tasks.
So tomorrow we'll keep on covering the other fundamental concepts of object orientated programming.
So I'll see you in the next lesson.